---
layout: posts
title: Joseph Stiglitz on corrupt governments and markets
date: '2015-03-27T04:23:25+08:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://blog.matthaldane.com/post/114693572347/joseph-stiglitz-on-corrupt-governments-and-markets
---
Bhoj Raj Poudel is a columnist for the Kathmandu Post and a classmate of mine at Tsinghua University. When Joseph Stiglitz visited Tsinghua’s campus this week, Bhoj asked about the issue of tackling problems in the market when governments are corrupt, which Stiglitz hasn’t talked much about. Paraphrased, Bhoj’s question was this:&nbsp;_Governments in many developing countries are corrupt and not working in favor of the people. They work for the interests of specific groups. It would be naive to think that governments would work for the public all the time. How would you reach your conclusion that government is the sole solution for fixing the market?_

Here was Stiglitz’s response:

> “I think in many countries, the government doesn’t necessarily work as well as it should. So for instance, in Bangladesh many of public services that are really important are provided by civil society… And civil society also serves as an important check on government and the markets. So an essential part… is that you create a good civil society that serves as a check on both of them. The second point I want to emphasize is we don’t live in a perfect world and we’re not going to get there. And one of my criticisms of the invisible hand is that it pretends that we live in a perfect world and that markets deliver everything perfectly. And if it did, we wouldn’t need government, we wouldn’t need civil society, and life would be very easy. But that’s not the world we live in. We don’t have any choice… You have to work to try to get all three of these [government, markets, civil society]. The press is a very important aspect of this because… it tries to be a check against both the market and the government. And in the end what you hope is those three working together checking each other, you get a society that functions reasonably well. I’ve been very critical of the United States, but in some ways it functions reasonably well. It’s a mostly market economy, but that mostly market economy in some ways has failed for most Americans because for 25 years they’ve seen no increase in their income. So that’s what happens if you have a market economy where [you haven’t gotten good value]… China should be striving to achieve a better value and people from other countries, it’s a big battle. I agree with you, it’s not going to be easy. One of the instruments… is more transparency. Right to know laws, right to tell laws. Because that’s one of the ways that you could provide that [value]. My own work is on imperfection of information in markets, but it’s also about imperfection of information in political circles, and those are just as important and are a strong incentive for secrecy in both government and the private sector. That’s why the banks don’t want to be transparent. And that’s why most governments don’t want to be transparent. I can give you stories on both sides. So what I’m really trying to do is to say for a while we had [a period we believed markets solved these problems], and now I’m saying that doesn’t work. What we also know is that governments don’t necessarily solve the problem… So I wish you luck.”

